{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AGaramondPro-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl336\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs38 \cf0 1.1 Introduction
\b0 \
\
As the democratisation of society has deepened so has the need for gauging and understanding public opinion. From government policy to product development, the sentiment and opinion of the public has increasingly shaped \
\
Current methods of measuring opinion are largely statistical, with methods such as polling looking at the opinion of a sample group, before using their results to make further predictions. \uc0\u57427 ese can be very accurate, however their small sampling rates mean that figures can often be askew. Furthermore polling is both costly and time consuming to conduct, and thus can neither be used to find opinion on breaking news or on a variety of topics. Nonetheless, as methods for measuring public opinion have increased both in accuracy and detail, politicians and policy makers are starting to look to them not only for affirmation of their policies, but for guidance and new initiative.\
\
As the web has become more prevalent throughout society, it is increasingly becoming a platform for discussion and opinion. \uc0\u57427 e initial growth of blogging demonstrated the web's ability to serve as a forum for debate and opinion. None the less, the technical knowledge required to start a blog, alongside the time required to write a post meant that adoption was limited. In the past two years however, we have seen the rise of micro-blogging (essentially 140 character blog posts) through services such as Twitter. \u57427 ese have seen unprecedented levels of adoption, with Twitter's 200 million users posting 25 billion micro-blog posts in 2010. Due to the simple nature of writing short posts, micro-blog discussion tends to break quickly around news topics, and offers genuine insight into public opinion surrounding news topics.\
\
\uc0\u57427 is project hopes to utilise the growth of publicly available opinion on the web, using it as a source upon which new methods for analysing and measuring public opinion can be built. In particular the project will focus on understanding sentiment on micro-blogging services such as Twitter.}